CHAP
===
 
Welcome to CHAP. CHAP is a software development toolkit developed by Almende. 
It offers generic multi-agent solutions for a myriad of problems.
 
CHAP includes software development tools, models and concrete solutions 
resulting from all Almende research projects. All these components are generic, 
so they may be tailored and diversified to suit different applications.

### Vision

All Almende research is centered around the concept of self-organization. 
Self-organization is the process by which complexity is handled in a system 
without central guidance from an external source. Self-organization is a topic 
addressed by many academic domains: physics, biology, mathematics, information 
theory, economics and sociology.
 
Almende believes that the best way of achieving self-organization in human 
society is with the aid of adaptive, robust and scalable software; more 
specifically, through multi-agent technology. CHAP can be seen as a library or 
a toolkit full of agent-based solutions. Years of experience in research and 
development at Almende are collected within CHAP.
 
A fully functioning self-organized system makes use of the autonomy of 
individuals to achieve its goals, thereby creating a network of people who can 
act independently. Software agents can be used to represent and aid each person 
in this network. Agents may also represent an object, an organization, a 
concept or a specific goal; any action or object in the real world.

Agents function in hypertime. They can communicate and coordinate much faster 
than humans can. An agent functions like a personal assistant to the person or 
object it is assigned to, working to achieve the goals for their reallife 
counterpart. Individual agents can facilitate quick and frequent communication, 
help making and keeping appointments, negotiate deals and track activities.
 
There is no central structure which is implemented from above. Each agent 
determines its own actions and negotiates and coordinates with other agents in 
the system. They can adapt to new situations and information, which is 
important if the software is to be implemented in a real, dynamic environment. 
Agents are designed to ask for feedback if they are confronted with a problem 
they cannot solve by themselves. They are not programmed for each eventuality, 
but to learn from experience and (implicit) feedback.
